
<h1>Acknowledgements</h1>
	<p>This thesis would not have been possible without the love of my community. I want to thank my thesis advisor, Kristin Skrabut, for her mentorship, guidance, and conversation throughout the research and writing process, without which I would be less confident in my work. I would like to thank my reader, Laurie Goldman, for her open office, candor, and expertise about community power. 
<p>I want to thank the Neighbor to Neighbor staff (Andrea, Angelica, Elvis, Estrella, Henry, Jackie, Joe, Karla, Katie, Maria Elena, and Zulmalee) who welcomed me in my summer internship, introduced me to the Mt. Tom Coal Plant campaign, and connected me to some of my interviewees. Along with this, I want to thank my Asian American Resource Workshop - Sticky Rice Project - Environmental Justice Working Group (Alyssa, Amanda, Lily, Liz, Maria, Osamu and Shiliu) for first introducing me to the Just Transition two years ago and the continual thesis check-ins throughout the year during our meetings. 
<p>I also thank my interviewees – for their time and willingness to speak with me. I want to thank Anand, Basil, Cesar, Joju, Jorge, Kripa, Maria, Tufts IRB, and the Tufts ARC Writing Center for their help in my IRB and writing process. I would like to thank my UEP community for being supportive of my learning these past two years – especially Penn Loh for all his classes focused on working with community. I also want to thank the Tufts ORLL staff (professional, resident directors, and the W3H student staff) for their support throughout this year.
<p>I want to thank my partner, Jorge, for his continuous care throughout from hearing my early thoughts and ideas, helping me with translations, and dealing with my many emotions in writing this thesis. I want to also thank Amma, Appa, and Basil for supporting me emotionally and helping me practice. Furthermore, I want to thank my extended family and my chosen family of friends for their love throughout my education.
<p>Finally, I want to thank all the activists and organizations in the world who are working towards a Just Transition because it is hard and never-ending work. It is their love for humanity and the Earth that creates hope for a better future.
 
