---
title: INTRODUCTION
layout: template
filename: introduction.md
--- 
<h1>Chapter 1: Introduction</h1>
	<p>In 2014, the Mt. Tom Coal Plant in Holyoke, MA, operating since 1960, was shut down by owner GDF-Suez (rebranded as ENGIE in 2015) , an international electric utility corporation based in France. What circumstances led to the closing of this coal plant in western Massachusetts? From the surface, most argue that it was a purely economic decision; with the cost of coal increasing, ENGIE decided to stop investing in a dying energy source. Yet, when I looked at the context and the series of events leading up to the coal plant closure, another story arose. The closure of the Mt. Tom Coal Plant came about when a group of activists promoted a better future for their municipality. Their hope motivated them to take a holistic approach to the danger of the coal plant – responding to the community’s environmental and economic concerns. They later employed the term “Just Transition” when they became aware that their vision aligned to theoretical conversations about the Just Transition. This thesis identifies the underlying principles of the Just Transition framework and analyzes the Action of a Healthy Holyoke! Coalition (AHH!) campaign to understand how the Just Transition framework manifested and impacted justice in Holyoke.
Holyoke is a city with a majority-minoritized population –mostly Latinx residents from Puerto Rico. About 60% of housing is renter occupied and the median household income is under $40K – all indicators of a marginalized population (U.S. Census Bureau, 2017). Community members with these identities often felt excluded in Holyoke’s decision-making processes (Christensen, 2019b). 
AHH! began around 2011 when a couple of Holyoke community organizations, Neighbor to Neighbor and Nuestras Raices, learned about the negative environmental and public health effects of the Mt. Tom Coal Plant from two statewide environmental groups, Sierra Club and Conservation Law Foundation. The Neighbor to Neighbor members wanted to do more than close the plant to benefit the environment. They envisioned a renewable energy future in which the emptied site would revitalize and energize Holyoke, and the coal plant workers were compensated and trained for renewable industry jobs. These community organizations joined forces and formed the AHH! coalition. Its goals were to close the coal plant, install a solar farm, create sustainable jobs for Holyoke residents, and take care of the union workers who depended on the coal industry. AHH! used a multi-pronged approach to close the coal plant, which included a public campaign, a city campaign, a union campaign, and a corporate campaign. 
	<p>The public campaign sought to raise public awareness about the health and environmental impacts of the coal plant. The coalition door-knocked, visited job centers, held public meetings attended by 50+ community members, and reached out to hundreds of residents and businesses. For the city campaign, AHH! asked the city council to create a Citizen Advisory Group (CAG) seated with residents and city staff appointed by the mayor (L. Entin, personal communication, January 30, 2020). AHH! hoped that the CAG would signal to ENGIE that the city envisioned a Holyoke without a coal plant and suggest that ENGIE’s failure to align to this future could jeopardize ENGIE’s relationship with the city. However, the CAG did not have a direct relationship with ENGIE, the private landowner. Neither the CAG, nor the City of Holyoke, had the authority to tell ENGIE to close the coal plant or determine how exactly to develop the site due to laws around private property and the limits of zoning code. The union campaign stemmed from AHH! members’ experiences of losing stable incomes when their employers had laid them off. AHH! members were concerned for the employees in the union whose livelihoods would accompany the plant closure (Letona, 2016). Through communication with a union member, AHH! altered their demands in the corporate campaign while the union separately negotiated with ENGIE about termination benefits. By 2013, AHH! began using the term “Just Transition” to describe their campaign which they argued benefitted the environment while improving Holyoke’s economic development and supporting coal plant workers.
AHH! launched a corporate campaign against ENGIE to close the coal plant and push for remediation and revitalization of the site. The campaign strategy included a legal route and a media route to shed negative light on the company. In April 2013, ENGIE delisted the Mt. Tom Coal Plant from the ISO-NE energy list but denied that the coal plant would close imminently and refused to meet with AHH! (Plaisance, 2013b). AHH! continued its campaign until ENGIE agreed to meet. At the meeting, member-leaders shared AHH!’s vision for a solar farm and for a job transition for workers. ENGIE shared very little at the meeting but in June 2014 ENGIE announced the coal plant closure.
	<p>The CAG conducted a reuse study mid-2015. The study findings shared the feasibility of and community support for the solar farm and commercial ventures on the site. The community support enabled ENGIE to receive state solar subsidies to build the solar farm. With the solar farm decision made, AHH! demanded that ENGIE clean up the site to prevent river contamination. 
<p>The campaign results were mixed. In 2017, solar farm construction was completed on the site’s empty land. The municipal light plant, Holyoke Gas & Electric, began sourcing part of its electricity portfolio from the solar farm. Though many coal plant workers received severance packages and job training, none were rehired to work on the solar farm. Additionally, the city lost significant tax revenue. No other private commercial ventures or community initiatives have been realized on the former coal plant site. A private contractor continues to demolish the coal plant structure to this day (Donahue & Farrell, 2019; Peters, 2019). AHH!’s organizing efforts shifted Holyoke’s future; community organizations have begun several Earth-conscious ventures to revitalize Holyoke. 
<p>This brief synopsis suggests that AHH!’s campaign can add to scholars’ and activists’ discussions about enacting the Just Transition in practice. The Just Transition reimagines the power dynamics among humans and between humans and nature. The Just Transition seeks to give people of marginalized identities the power to decide a society’s future in order to promote environmental sustainability while creating an economy supportive of the environment, community members, and workers.  As a result, the Just Transition strives to achieve distributional, procedural, and restorative justice. 
<p>This thesis will study how the Just Transition framework manifested in AHH!’s campaign. With the AHH!’s campaign as a case study, I seek to answer the following research questions: 
<p>1.	Who did AHH! conceptualize as “the community” to be mobilized to enact a Just Transition? 
<p>2.	What specific organizing strategies did AHH! use to bring the different stakeholders to various decision-making tables? 
<p>3.	How effectively did these strategies challenge business-as-usual processes in corporate and city government decisions – to build space for community decision-making? 
<p>4.	How did these processes enhance distributional, procedural and restorative justice in Holyoke, MA? 
<p>5.	In what ways has community power ebbed and flowed during and since the campaign?
<p>Following a literature review, and methodology, I walk through how AHH! informed its strategy with knowledge of local context. Then, I explain how AHH! found the Just Transition framework generative to define the scope of the campaign demands and actualized these demands by harnessing community power, defined as the capacity to create change through collective action. Finally, I share the resulting impact of AHH!’s work on justice in Holyoke and changes to the decision-making structure within Holyoke’s energy sector. My findings suggest:
<p>1.	The Just Transition framework is difficult to accomplish in one campaign. 
<p>2.	Campaigns should be led by marginalized community members. Marginalized community members use the local context of the municipality to envision a future and devise appropriate strategies. Their marginalized experiences inform the collective campaign’s vision to ensure that all residents (non-privileged and privileged) benefit from the changes.
<p>3.	People are motivated to participate in environmental activism when environmental issues connect to their embodied experience and require support from experts when encountering the technicalities to implement the demands.
<p>4.	Coalitions function as meaningful structures to incorporate multiple stakeholders into the campaign. Coalitions aid activists in being responsive to the changing local and statewide context of the campaign.
<p>5.	The success of a Just Transition campaign depends on creating community-based decision-making power. Current community engagement structures allow government and private decision-makers to hear community demands, but do not mandate the implementation of requests. Communities need to innovate and implement a diverse set of decision-making structures to allow residents with different capacities to engage fully.  
<h2>Literature Review</h2> 
<h3>Introduction</h3>
<p>As an exploration of how activists can support transitions to clean energy while promoting socially just societies, this thesis contributes to research on the “Just Transition.” This literature review informs my analysis of how AHH!’s campaign enacted the Just Transition framework by articulating the framework’s set of principles. To begin, I briefly explain frameworks that inform the Just Transition framework. Then, I delineate the vision for justice that makes the Just Transition framework distinctive and delve into specific components of the Just Transition: better relationship with Earth, leadership of laborers to change the economy, and democratizing decision-making. Afterward, I overview examples of democratization in the energy sector. Finally, I identify strategies community organizers can use to implement the Just Transition. 
The Just Transition furthers environmental, climate, and energy justice frameworks by not only reimaging the relationships between humans and nature but demanding a change in the power dynamics among humans. Environmental justice arose in response to the disproportionate distribution of environmental hazards that Black, Brown, and low-income communities experienced due to the siting of polluting industries in these communities. Since the 1980s environmental justice activists have reconceptualized environment to include more than conserved land. They define environment as places where people live, work, and play. Climate justice activists apply an environmental justice lens to the climate crisis. They shed light on the inequities frontline communities encounter from climate impacts and call for decarbonization via mitigation and reduction. Energy justice activists seek to address climate change by making energy safe, affordable and renewable for all people. The focus on energy allows actors to delve into each step of energy’s lifecycle (from extraction to waste management) and promote energy-specific solutions (R. Benford, 2005; Jenkins, 2018). The Just Transition draws on insights from all three justices: adhering to the broad understanding of environment while centering frontline communities to ensure that everyone has access to affordable and renewable energy. 
<h3>Just Transition Framework</h3>
<p>The Just Transition differs from other frameworks by moving past “stopping the harm” to “envisioning the future.” Fossil fuel corporations continue to capitalize on the harm to ecosystems and human health. Environmental and climate change activists and policy makers have advocated to transition to renewable energy while maintaining our current economic and political systems. Instead, Just Transition activists envision healthy communities in which community members decide to prioritize human and ecological needs (Goddard & Farrelly, 2018). By prioritizing these needs, they seek to reduce inequities, so all people have an opportunity for a high quality of life. The Just Transition, in the most transformative form, includes a class analysis to understand that capitalism is the root of the problem, and replaces the prevailing capitalist culture with one that champions the environment and society above profits (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Webster, 2016). It opposes traditional climate change solutions, which favor technocratic systems and limit the public’s decision-making. Just Transition activists empower marginalized communities (Black, Indigenous, Latino, Asian, Pacific Islander, or working-class whites) to take back decision-making control from corporations (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Webster, 2016). The criteria of the Just Transitions framework for a new future includes redefining humans’ relationship with Earth, caring for human labor, and democratizing decision-making to create justice (Mies & Shiva, 1993).
<p>The Just Transition framework promotes distributional, procedural, and restorative justice. Distributional justice looks at who receives the beneficial outcomes of energy production versus who is burdened by the negative impacts (health or environmental) (McCauley & Heffron, 2018; McCauley, Darren et al., 2019). Procedural justice seeks to make sure that communities participate in decision-making processes with the state and industry to fulfill community desires. Restorative justice looks not only at the possibilities for a decarbonized future but also repairs the harms inflicted by current systems. As a result, the punishments of wrong-doers constructively support communities and environments through rehabilitation, new infrastructure, or the creation of jobs (McCauley & Heffron, 2018). To create justice, activists and advocates change how the economy runs by redefining how society uses Earth’s resources and values human labor
<p>The Just Transition redefines society’s relationship to Earth so that society is less extractive and more regenerative of Earth’s resources. An example is transitioning from carbon-intensive materials like coal and natural gas to renewable resources and promoting energy efficiency. With energy efficiency, humans reduce the amount of energy extracted from the ground. Renewable energy can be used for fuel while emitting fewer greenhouses and pollution. Together, energy efficiency and renewable energy can enable society to have a different relationship with Earth. The community can use local knowledge of environmental resources to avoid ecological destruction and limit inequitable public health risks (Evans & Phelan, 2016; Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). 
<p>Redefining our relationship with Earth demands political and cultural change according to Mascarenhas-Swan. Fossil fuel corporations’ desire for profit controls society’s relationship with Earth, continuously extracting resources without concern for ecological or human welfare (Healy & Barry, 2017). Furthermore, corporations who practice corporate social responsibility still fail to address local residents’ environmental and social concerns (Newenham-Kahindi, 2011). According to Just Transition theorists, to redefine a community’s relationship to Earth and create distributional justice, communities need to have decision-making authority over energy and economic decisions. Communities can accomplish this by resisting centralized systems dominated by fossil fuels, reclaiming business rules, redistributing profits, and restructuring governance for participatory decision-making (Becker & Naumann, 2017; Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Stephens et al., 2018). In reclaiming business rules and shifting power from corporations to communities, the Just Transition framework highlights the importance of laborers’ participation to ensure that their livelihoods are taken care.
<p>The Just Transition challenges the notion that environmentalism and the interests of laborers are opposed (Evans & Phelan, 2016; Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). In the United States, laborers often oppose environmental advocates for fear of lost livelihoods and in turn, experience “climate alienation” (Brecher, 2017). The fossil fuel industry has sustained the fear by claiming that environmental regulations drive jobs overseas, distressing American workers. Therefore, instead of working alongside communities and other workers, unions in fossil fuel industries often isolate themselves and support policies in favor of the industry’s interest. Additionally, in the current age, fossil fuel workers see colleagues suddenly let go without a safety net (Evans & Phelan, 2016). The Labor Movement conceived of the Just Transition in response to the environmental justice movement. The Just Transition integrates the interests of laborers and the environment by recognizing that labor supports individuals’ livelihoods and that workers want healthy environments to support their communities (Goddard & Farrelly, 2018; Movement Generation, 2017). Laborers are members of the community at large and often come from marginalized identities like being low-income (Brecher, 2017; Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). Since the environment encompasses places where people live, work, and play, activists and laborers, like other community members, want to protect people by supporting social issues like housing, education, and healthcare (Evans & Phelan, 2016).
<p>The Just Transition also demands that workers and unions co-lead with activists. Workers’ leadership is imperative because their labor enables the economy, both when exploited in the fossil fuel extractive economy or engaged in the regenerative economy (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). With laborer’s leadership activists co-create a vision of green jobs and unions to secure “dignified and sustainable livelihoods”  (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017, p. 37; Stephens et al., 2018). According to Webster, for a fruitful partnership, laborers must stand in solidary with activists and organize to challenge the fossil fuel industry. Laborers are a major stakeholder for public authorities so when laborers lobby the state, it can lead to the creation of policies that “maximize benefit and minimize harm” to workers avoiding disproportionate impacts of transitioning from fossil fuels (Webster, 2016). The Just Transition urges activists to do more than support a greening of the capitalist economy. The Just Transition demands an end to the exploitative power dynamics between the ruling class and working class, which has increased the wealth gap overtime. It requires society to prioritize nature’s capacity and humans’ needs above profits (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Stevis & Felli, 2015; Webster, 2016). If successful, community-laborer partnerships strengthen solidarity and overall community economic security and political power (Brecher, 2017; Harding & Simmons, 2018). To create the conditions to change systems, Just Transition activists seek to democratize decision-making power to hold corporations accountable to the injustices that have resulted from the current capitalist economy (Newell & Mulvaney, 2013). 
<p>The Just Transition occurs when voiceless people rise against the centralized economic powers. They demand public control to reverse mismanagement of local resources and create social and environmental justice. They transform the system of dependence on fossil fuels and corporate powers (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Stephens et al., 2018; Swyngedouw, 2014). Democracy, as practiced in the United States, racializes and genders citizenship so that power is unevenly distributed among demographic identities (Paley, 2002). Decision-making processes favor and empower those of financial means, like the heads of fossil fuel industries, limiting procedural justice (McCauley, Darren et al., 2019; Newell & Mulvaney, 2013; Routledge et al., 2018). Industry leaders create a narrative that continued fossil fuel use is necessary for the state’s economic prosperity. The continued use of fossil fuels limits distributional and restorative justice when certain identities (typically low-income people and people of color) experience the negative health impacts from the fossil fuel lifecycle (Cushing et al., 2015; Newell & Mulvaney, 2013). According to several Just Transition theorists, the public must vision, strategize, and actively participate to gain local control of their economy and make economic choices that are responsive to their local ecology to ensure justice (Becker & Naumann, 2017; Evans & Phelan, 2016; Hess, 2019; Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Stephens et al., 2018). The community’s collective imagination is required to redesign extractive practices to responsibly steward the earth while supporting human life (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Stephens et al., 2018; Veelen, 2018; Webster, 2016). Imagination can regenerate local economies connecting local production to local use and revitalizing marginalized communities (Stephens et al., 2018). Community members increase in leadership and are empowered to take control of the local economy (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). With this overview of the Just Transition, we examine practices to implement democracy in the energy sector. 
<h3>Implementing Energy Democracy</h3>
<p>Energy democracy seeks to shift energy sources from fossil fuels to renewable resources while challenging the dominant economic and political power relations between corporations and communities. Democratization is a political call to open participation, redistribute resources, and provide reparations within the energy sector. The process of democratization includes decentralizing energy production and distribution, gaining collective ownership of infrastructure, and energy sovereignty to allow for local self-determination (Becker & Naumann, 2017; Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Porta, 2013; Stephens et al., 2018, 2018; Veelen, 2018). A large challenge is the role of the private sector (both fossil fuel-based and renewable-based) which can lobby for policies that entrench private control of energy systems (Stephens et al., 2018). Stephens et al suggest that activists must oppose investor-owned utilities which local communities have no control over and support municipally owned utilities (Stephens et al., 2018). 
<p>Critical processes to democratic energy governance include direct decision-making, government accountability, and open discussion to resolve internal disputes to redefine the role of the government (Fung & Wright, 2001; Porta, 2013; Veelen, 2018). Direct decision-making refers to the transfer of authority from representatives to community controlled councils consisting of public members (Fung & Wright, 2001). These councils provide more than an advisory role; they directly make decisions from “conception to execution” (Fung & Wright, 2001, p. 22). The local councils are linked together through a regional body or government that would provide resources, expertise, and best practice sharing across councils to ensure the quality of direct decision-making in each (Fung & Wright, 2001). The regional body holds local councils accountable to running democratically, inclusive processes and implementing of residents’ desires, providing government accountability (Fung & Wright, 2001; Paley, 2004; Veelen, 2018). As activists work toward democratizing decision-making, activists can alter public engagement practices to increase “robust public discussion – sometimes contentiously – in the public sphere” (Dodge, 2015, p. 250). These altered practices seek to redirect state social arrangements so that power belongs to the wider public (procedural justice), as opposed to industry leaders, the wealthy, or technocrats (Paley, 2002). The energy democracy piece of the Just Transition works towards procedural justice so that communities make decisions related to their ecosystem, well-being, and use of Earth’s resources (Evans & Phelan, 2016).
<p>In developing power, the community should make several decisions to define boundaries. It is helpful for members to identify who is part of the community. Widely defining the community within the municipality to encourage a diversity of voices in the decision-making process, while centering the experiences of marginalized populations (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Veelen, 2018). Diverse opinions require negotiation and consensus to resolve disputes. By welcoming dissent and differences, public engagement increases and so does trust in the democratic process (Porta, 2013; Veelen, 2018). Increased resident participation additionally strengthens social networks creating social resiliency in the face of climate change impacts (Evans & Phelan, 2016). Energy democracy also requires addressing the energy system holistically from production to consumption to disposal (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). Each stage of the energy life cycle might not be within local purview, so one community cannot address the entire system. Communities need to know what part of the energy life cycle is within their power to change. Then, the community should find ways to collaborate with other municipalities to change the whole system (Becker & Naumann, 2017; Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). 
<p>The lived realities of community members make achieving energy democracy difficult. Though organizations may seek to increase direct participation, projects’ convoluted details, members’ lack of technical knowledge and time, and state-processes’ timelines make consistent direct participation onerous (Veelen, 2018). In practice, energy democracy has tended to mix forms of direct democracy with representative democracy. Direct democracy allows members to envision the bigger picture while representative democracy means that trusted community leaders with time may consult with technical experts to decide the technicalities to implement the vision (Graeber, 2012; Veelen, 2018). With strategy and power, communities can reconstruct the economy and its relationship with Earth’s natural resources to achieve the Just Transition (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017; Stephens et al., 2018; Veelen, 2018; Webster, 2016).
<h3>Organizing Strategies</h3> 
<p>Just Transition activists can use different organizing frameworks to create community power and address local issues (Cowan, 2006). Some important strategies to consider include framing the message, coalition building, and leveraging government processes.
<p>Creating a message to make the campaign attractive to potential participants in the community is critical. Crafting a new narrative, a “collective action frame” can inspire mobilization for a regenerative, fossil fuel-free culture (R. D. Benford & Snow, 2000; Evans & Phelan, 2016; Hess, 2019, p. 39). The frame creates a collective identity and vision to move towards the Just Transition, defines the activists’ relation to other actors in the campaign’s context, and demonstrates how activists view society’s fossil fuel culture (van Doorn et al., 2013). When the frame culturally resonates with the broader community to garner support and specifically resonate with key target communities that the campaign seeks to recruit and develop as leaders (Hess, 2019). With strategic framing, people external to the coalition can be convinced to act in solidarity with the campaign (van Doorn et al., 2013). Intentional framing supports coalition building. 
<p>We are in a “period of structural decline of the global coal markets” and raised global consciousness of climate change (Evans & Phelan, 2016, p. 333). Anti-fossil fuel activists lean on this global consciousness to create coalitions, thereby increasing membership and leveraging relationships and resources throughout the course of the campaign (Diani, 2013). Activists can use multiple, frequent communications to connect networks of stakeholders (Stephens et al., 2018). Scholars suggest that coalition leaders strategize on how to present their message and membership to respond to stakeholders and decision-makers in the campaign’s context (Hess, 2019; van Doorn et al., 2013). Moreover, cross-sectoral coalitions create opportunities for innovation (Stephens et al., 2018). Multi-sector union participation enables the coalition to learn about laborers’ concerns and organize strategically to increase the likelihood of earning support from unions within the fossil fuel industry (Mascarenhas-Swan, 2017). The diversity and strong management of a coalition improves the success of direct actions against fossil fuel infrastructure and activists’ influence in government (Stephens et al., 2018). 
<p>Activists can employ state energy goals to create local standards for renewable energy in support of the Just Transition (Becker & Naumann, 2017; Hess, 2019; Stephens et al., 2018; Veelen, 2018). With local standards in place, activists can demand public seats in local energy planning committees and advocate for more ambitious renewable energy policies and funding (Stephens et al., 2018; Veelen, 2018). Additionally, through these committees activists can pressure the government to increase community decision-making in the energy sector (Healy & Barry, 2017; Porta, 2013). 
<p>Some organizers may choose to work outside of state institutions because they have lost faith in the state’s processes. They doubt the state’s power to intervene in the increasingly privatized energy sector (Healy & Barry, 2017; Porta, 2013). Further, they find the “well-ordered” channels for community engagement that are provided by the government insufficient to obtain the authority necessary to transform the energy sector (Chatterjee, 2001). In order for local municipalities to gain direct control over energy distribution, activists may work to decentralize energy management systems and remove power from investor-owned utilities. Municipal control would allow the public more opportunity to hold energy production and distribution decisions accountable to residents’ interests instead of shareholder profits (Appadurai, 2002; Evans & Phelan, 2016; Movement Generation Justice & Ecology Project, 2013; Stephens et al., 2018). By altering procedural justice in energy-related decisions and land use policies, activists can create distributional justice by reducing negative environmental impacts experienced by marginalized communities (Cushing et al., 2015).
<h3>Conclusion</h3>
<p>According to Mascarenhas-Swan and other Just Transition theorist, achieving a Just Transition for the energy sector requires that activists seek to redefine society’s relationship with nature, collaborate with labor, and democratize energy governance. These components enable distributional, procedural, and restorative justice in the transformed society. However, the Just Transition is far from easy to achieve. Activists must pay attention to the political, cultural, economic, and environmental context to develop strategies to further the Just Transition. Though the literature posits theories and strategies, the literature could be enriched by more in situ examples of the Just Transition, highlighting the successes and challenges in trying to achieve it. 
<p>AHH!’s campaign will show how the Just Transition functions at multiple levels – by working against a global corporation to reduce negative public health impacts, responding to local demands to revitalize the economy, and calling for local decision-making with state support. In analyzing the Mt. Tom Coal Plant case, I underscore how AHH! proactively responded to fossil fuel issues and developed renewable resource solutions by co-creating knowledge and strategy with people of marginalized identities in Holyoke (McCauley & Heffron, 2018). The case of the Mt. Tom Coal Plant will illuminate the process by which organizers tried to engage labor and the state. AHH!’s campaign will show one way in which energy processes can be altered to create procedural and distributional justice. Understanding the Just Transition in practice will be helpful in identifying challenges that organizers faced and sharing critical strategies to create future progress.
